---
title: 4.3 Design setup using Caravel_user_project
layout: default
parent: "Digital Design Flow"
grand_parent: UNIC-CASS Training Materials
has_toc: false
has_children: false
---
# 4.3 Design setup using Caravel_user_project
<div style="width: 854px;padding:56.25% 0 0 0;position:relative;"><iframe src="https://player.vimeo.com/video/857490487?h=0c29c2b5ba&amp;badge=0&amp;autopause=0&amp;player_id=0&amp;app_id=58479" frameborder="0" allow="autoplay; fullscreen; picture-in-picture" style="position:absolute;top:0;left:0;width:100%;height:100%;" title="4.3 Design setup with Caravel_user_project"></iframe></div><script src="https://player.vimeo.com/api/player.js"></script>

# Lecture notes
<iframe src="https://docs.google.com/document/d/e/2PACX-1vSDJ8BbelfFakfIt3yu32TfKUzmZhForbnmRX1cKS7BJY3xvUnr2Ct1RpUx5kVMCEt92N8RfbybWzi-/pub?embedded=true" width="854" height="600"></iframe>

# Design setup using Caravel_user_project
# Prerequisites
To follow this lesson, you need a working linux system with docker installed and started. The instruction to setup the environment is introduced in Lesson 2.1.

When you complete that lesson. You can come back here.

Caravel User Project need python3 virtual environment package that can be installed by this command:
```bash
sudo apt-get install python3-venv
```

## Introduction
In this lesson, we will learn how to use `caravel_user_project` to harden our design and integrate it into the `caravel_user_project` so that it can be fabricated using Caravel Test Harness. 

It is recommended to have a github account with the proper setup so that you can checkout and push the change to github. However, it is optional, you can skip the start with the OPTIONAL at the beginning in this tutorial

## (OPTIONAL) Create a github repository

1. First, we create a repository on github to store our code. This can be done by going to https://github.com and log in with your account credentials. After that you can select the menu to create a new repository.
2. In the create new repository page, you will enter the information and select if your repository is public or private. Press ‘Create repository’ when done.
3. When your setup is done, you will see the instruction to add files to your new created repository. Please remember the path to your repository because we will need it later.
4. It is a good practice to set up an ssh key to access github. You can follow the instructions in [this tutorial](https://www.theserverside.com/blog/Coffee-Talk-Java-News-Stories-and-Opinions/GitHub-SSH-Key-Setup-Config-Ubuntu-Linux) or [this videos](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=s6KTbytdNgs).

## Clone the repository and run the setup
1. Next, we create a directory for the run by using this command:
```bash
mkdir -p $HOME/unic-cass/caravel_tutorial
cd $HOME/unic-cass/caravel_tutorial
```
2. Download the source code with the correct release/tag. In this tutorial, we will use the latest release tag of Caravel which is mpw-9d as follows:
```
git clone -b mpw-9d https://github.com/efabless/caravel_user_project \
caravel_uniccass_example
cd caravel_uniccass_example
```
3. (optional) Next, we will rename the original git url into an upstream so that we can edit the file and push it into our own git repository
```
$ git remote rename origin upstream
$ git remote add origin git@github.com:duyhieubui/caravel_uniccas_example.git
```
You should replace my github with your created repository using the ssh URI that you created in the previous part.
4. (optional) We create a new branch so that it will not interfere with the original one
```
git checkout -b unic-cass
```
5. (optional) we now can push the source code into our own repository and start changing it
```
git push -u origin unic-cas
```
## Run the setup

1. Next, we need to set up two environment variables PDK_ROOT and OPENLANE_ROOT. This is needed during the setup because caravel_user_project use a specific version of Skywater 130nm PDK and a specific version of Openlane
export PDK_ROOT=$HOME/unic-cass/caravel_tutorial/pdks
export OPENLANE_ROOT=$HOME/unic-cass/caravel_tutorial/openlane
2. Next, we need to download the required file for caravel to run by this command:
make setup
3. Now we are done with the setup. We are ready to run the examples from caravel user project 

## What’s next?

We have done the setup of the caravel user project. It is time to run some examples from the project. Please note that you need to set the `PDK_ROOT` and `OPENLANE_ROOT` to the correct directory so that we don’t have to run the set up again. This can fasten the flow. In the next lesson, we will go through the process to harden a design and integrate it into the test harness.